docs/DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# Development Guide

This guide provides essential information for developers working on the Teleport project.

## Environment Setup

### Prerequisites

- Install the latest version of Docker
- Linux distribution with SGX support (e.g., Ubuntu 20.04 LTS)
- SGX driver installed (follow manufacturer instructions)

### Configuration

The configuration is loaded from multiple sources in the following order:

1. `config/default.toml`: Contains default settings for all environments, including paths to essential files for TEE server setup and remote attestation.
2. Environment-specific config file: `config/{environment}.toml` (e.g., `config/development.toml`, `config/staging.toml`, `config/production.toml`)
   - The environment is determined by the `RUN_MODE` environment variable, defaulting to "development" if not set.
   - Valid options for `RUN_MODE` are: development, staging, production.
   - Each environment has its specific configuration file with tailored settings.
3. Environment variables with the prefix "APP_".

Sources are merged from top to bottom, with values in later sources overriding those in previous sources.

Additionally, create a `private.env` file by copying variables from [private.env.example](../private.env.example) and filling in the required values. This file contains sensitive information and should not be committed to version control.

## Docker Configuration

Our project uses Docker for containerization. The main configuration files are:

- [Dockerfile](/Dockerfile): Defines how the project image is built. It includes steps for setting up the environment, installing dependencies, and building the project.
- [docker-compose.yml](/docker-compose.yml): Defines the service setup, including environment variables, volume mounts, and device mappings for SGX support.

Refer to these files directly for the most up-to-date information on our Docker setup.

## Building and Running TEE server

```bash
# Build the Docker image
docker compose build

# Start the server
docker compose run --rm teleport "make start-gramine-server"
```

## Debugging TEE server

Note on SGX settings:

- The Dockerfile builds both SGX and non-SGX versions of the application.
- The docker-compose.yml file sets `SGX=1` as the default environment variable.
- For debugging, we override this setting with `SGX=` to use the non-SGX version.

To run the project in debug mode:

```bash
docker compose run --rm teleport "DEBUG=1 SGX= make start-gramine-server"
```

This command:

- Overrides the default SGX setting for this specific run
- Enables debug logging in Gramine (`DEBUG=1`)
- Uses `gramine-direct` instead of `gramine-sgx` (`SGX=`)
- Builds the project if necessary and starts the Gramine server

Debug mode effects:

- Sets Gramine's log level to "debug" for more verbose output
- Runs the application without the SGX enclave for easier debugging

Note: Debug mode doesn't provide the same security as `gramine-sgx`. Use it only for development in a secure environment.

Logs will be displayed directly in the terminal where you run the command. If you need to run the container in detached mode and view logs separately, you can modify the command like this:

```bash
docker compose run -d --rm teleport "DEBUG=1 SGX= make start-gramine-server"
```

Then view logs with:

```bash
docker compose logs teleport
```

Remember to switch back to non-debug mode for production or when testing security features.Let me add some brief explanation about what exactly does it do.

## Code Style

We use `rustfmt` for code formatting. The configuration is in [rustfmt.toml](../rustfmt.toml).

Run before committing:

```bash
cargo fmt
```

## Common Issues

- If SGX errors occur, ensure the SGX driver is properly installed and the hardware supports SGX.
- For Twitter API issues, verify the credentials in `private.env`.

## Useful Commands

```bash
# Rebuild and restart the server
docker compose build && docker compose run --rm teleport "make start-gramine-server"

# View logs
docker compose logs teleport
```

## Resources

- [Gramine Documentation](https://gramine.readthedocs.io/)
- [Axum Documentation](https://docs.rs/axum/latest/axum/) (for web framework)
- [Rusqlite Documentation](https://docs.rs/rusqlite/latest/rusqlite/) (for SQLite database)
- [Twitter API Documentation](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs)
- [OpenAI API Documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction)
- [Alloy Documentation](https://github.com/alloy-rs/alloy) (for blockchain interactions)

Commit message:

feat: Update development configuration and documentation
- Added ENV variable to development.toml to specify the environment as "development".
- Updated APP_URL in development.toml to include the protocol (http).
- Enhanced DEVELOPMENT.md to include instructions for running the server in development mode without TEE, Gramine, TLS, or Docker.
- Recommended enabling logging during development for better visibility.

docs/DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# Development Guide

This guide provides essential information for developers working on the Teleport project.

## Environment Setup

### Prerequisites

- Install the latest version of Docker
- Linux distribution with SGX support (e.g., Ubuntu 20.04 LTS)
- SGX driver installed (follow manufacturer instructions)

### Configuration

The configuration is loaded from multiple sources in the following order:

1. `config/default.toml`: Contains default settings for all environments, including paths to essential files for TEE server setup and remote attestation.
2. Environment-specific config file: `config/{environment}.toml` (e.g., `config/development.toml`, `config/staging.toml`, `config/production.toml`)
   - The environment is determined by the `RUN_MODE` environment variable, defaulting to "development" if not set.
   - Valid options for `RUN_MODE` are: development, staging, production.
   - Each environment has its specific configuration file with tailored settings.
3. Environment variables with the prefix "APP_".

Sources are merged from top to bottom, with values in later sources overriding those in previous sources.

Additionally, create a `private.env` file by copying variables from [private.env.example](../private.env.example) and filling in the required values. This file contains sensitive information and should not be committed to version control.

## Docker Configuration

Our project uses Docker for containerization. The main configuration files are:

- [Dockerfile](/Dockerfile): Defines how the project image is built. It includes steps for setting up the environment, installing dependencies, and building the project.
- [docker-compose.yml](/docker-compose.yml): Defines the service setup, including environment variables, volume mounts, and device mappings for SGX support.

Refer to these files directly for the most up-to-date information on our Docker setup.

## Development Mode

To facilitate easier iteration on the non-TEE components of the application, we provide a development mode that allows you to run the server without TEE, Gramine, TLS, or Docker.

To start the server in development mode, simply execute `cargo run` from the root of the repository. This command will launch the server on `http://localhost:3000`.

It is highly recommended to enable logging during development by running:

```bash
RUST_LOG=info cargo run
```

## Building and Running TEE server

```bash
# Build the Docker image
docker compose build

# Start the server
docker compose run --rm teleport "make start-gramine-server"
```

## Debugging TEE server

Note on SGX settings:

- The Dockerfile builds both SGX and non-SGX versions of the application.
- The docker-compose.yml file sets `SGX=1` as the default environment variable.
- For debugging, we override this setting with `SGX=` to use the non-SGX version.

To run the project in debug mode:

```bash
docker compose run --rm teleport "DEBUG=1 SGX= make start-gramine-server"
```

This command:

- Overrides the default SGX setting for this specific run
- Enables debug logging in Gramine (`DEBUG=1`)
- Uses `gramine-direct` instead of `gramine-sgx` (`SGX=`)
- Builds the project if necessary and starts the Gramine server

Debug mode effects:

- Sets Gramine's log level to "debug" for more verbose output
- Runs the application without the SGX enclave for easier debugging

Note: Debug mode doesn't provide the same security as `gramine-sgx`. Use it only for development in a secure environment.

Logs will be displayed directly in the terminal where you run the command. If you need to run the container in detached mode and view logs separately, you can modify the command like this:

```bash
docker compose run -d --rm teleport "DEBUG=1 SGX= make start-gramine-server"
```

Then view logs with:

```bash
docker compose logs teleport
```

Remember to switch back to non-debug mode for production or when testing security features.Let me add some brief explanation about what exactly does it do.

## Code Style

We use `rustfmt` for code formatting. The configuration is in [rustfmt.toml](../rustfmt.toml).

Run before committing:

```bash
cargo fmt
```

## Common Issues

- If SGX errors occur, ensure the SGX driver is properly installed and the hardware supports SGX.
- For Twitter API issues, verify the credentials in `private.env`.

## Useful Commands

```bash
# Rebuild and restart the server
docker compose build && docker compose run --rm teleport "make start-gramine-server"

# View logs
docker compose logs teleport
```

## Resources

- [Gramine Documentation](https://gramine.readthedocs.io/)
- [Axum Documentation](https://docs.rs/axum/latest/axum/) (for web framework)
- [Rusqlite Documentation](https://docs.rs/rusqlite/latest/rusqlite/) (for SQLite database)
- [Twitter API Documentation](https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs)
- [OpenAI API Documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/introduction)
- [Alloy Documentation](https://github.com/alloy-rs/alloy) (for blockchain interactions)
